# US 5.1.1 - As an admin, I want to register new backoffice users (e.g., doctors, nurses, technicians, admins) via an out-of-band process, so that they can access the backoffice system with appropriate permissions.

---

## Table of Contents

- [1. Requirement Engineering](#1-requirement-engineering)

    - [1.1. Context](#11-context)
    - [1.2. User Story Description](#12-user-story-description)
    - [1.3. Customer Specifications and Clarifications](#13-customer-specifications-and-clarifications)
    - [1.4 Acceptance Criteria](#14-acceptance-criteria-)
    - [1.5 Other rules](#15-other-rules)
    - [1.6 Dependencies](#16-dependencies)
    - [1.7 Input and Output Data](#17-input-and-output-data)



## 1. Requirement Engineering

### 1.1. Context

The system will enable hospitals and clinics to manage surgery appointments, and patient records. The users will be
managed by the backoffice module.The admin will be in charge of registering users by a out-of-band process.

### 1.2. User Story Description

As an admin, I want to register new backoffice users (e.g., doctors, nurses, technicians, admins) via an out-of-band process, so that they can access the backoffice system with appropriate permissions.

### 1.3. Customer Specifications and Clarifications

**From the specification document:**

>Represent a user in the system, either an admin managing the system, a healthcare staff or patients interacting with it.

>Attributes:
  -'Username'
  -'Role'
  -'Email'

>Rules:
  -Backoffice users are registered by the admin in the IAM through an out of band process.
  -Patient users are self-registered using the IAM.
  -The user's IAM record is linked to the respective user and staff/patient record in the backoffice data.
  -All users authenticate using the IAM.

<br>

**From the client clarifications:**

> **Question:** "In another answer you said: "the username is the "official" email address of the user. for backoffice users, this is the mechanographic number of the collaborator, e.g., D240003 or N190345, and the DNS domain of the system. For instance, Doctor Manuela Fernandes has email "D180023@myhospital.com"."


If we use a DNS domain like the one above and, so, those emails do not actually exist, how can staff receive the confirmation link to activate their account?"
>
> **Answer:** "in that same clarification https://moodle.isep.ipp.pt/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=31510#p39978 you may find that "The system must allow for an easy configuration of the DNS domain (e.g., environment variable)."


> **Question:** "My team was discussing and we were in a bit of a disagreement, we were hoping you could clarify things. So when, let me preface this by saying, when we register a patient, it is referred to as being done primarily in-band, not out-of-band, like the backup users. When we register a patient in a medical facility, we don't always need them to have a user, the patient may not even want to use the application.

So we were asking, when we record a patient profile on an operation request or a support or something like that, do we need to create, do we always need to create an associated user or can we leave it just as a patient profile?"
>
> **Answer** "No, yes, you can leave it just as a patient profile. If by any chance, from a technical point of view, it is easier for the implementation if you also create a user, but the user is inactive or something like that, that is totally ok, because that would be some kind of implementation detail. But from a functional point of view, from a requirement point of view, one thing is to create the patient records, and another thing is the patient user."

<br>

### 1.4 Acceptance Criteria:

- Backoffice users are registered by an admin via an internal process, not via self-registration.
- Admin assigns roles during the registration process.
Registered users receive a one-time setup link via email to set their password and activate their account.
- The system enforces strong password requirements for security.
- A confirmation email is sent to verify the user's registration.


### 1.6 Dependencies:

- There must be a connection with email API to send registration emails.

### 1.7 Input and Output Data:

- **Input data:**

    - Username
    - Role
    - Email


- **Output data:**

    - Email with register confirmation

  
---